madness yen I think vegans in general
blame the demand side of the equation we
blame the fact that there is a demand
for meat we tend not to blame the
middlemen producing meat we tend not to
blame the slaughterhouse workers because
we know as long as people are wanting to
buy meat other people are gonna want to
trade in meat produce meat slaughter
meat etc so by the same token I don't
buy the depiction of drug addicts as
passive victims who have no agency there
is that word agency again that I open
this video talking about and only drug
dealers as having agencies or drug drug
dealers is having moral responsibility
for the situation we can say the
opposite as long as people are going to
pay for cocaine somebody's going to be
growing it and somebody is gonna be
dealing it quote I lived in Vancouver
for five years and spent time with
people on the Lower East Side
many are victims of racism and quite a
large number our First Nations people
close quote
really so let's talk about agency and
let's talk about personal moral
responsibility if a white person becomes
a drug addict that's their choice that's
their responsibility they are morally
culpable for the consequences of their
actions but you're telling me that
someone who is a victim of racism is not
your your dehumanizing that is a racist
perspective I know you may think maude
vegan that your perspective is
anti-racist but it's not your
perspective is actually racist in a
recent debate between vegan gains and
Matt Dillahunty vegan gains said very
casually as a throwaway line that he
thought it was morally acceptable for
indigenous people to engage in hunting
for survival I said in the present tense
he didn't say 2,000 years ago in the
year 2018 I think it is really false to
talk about indigenous people as if they
are living in a museum devoted to their
own ancient past they're not they're
living in the same world that you and I
are living in here and now with many of
the same choices not all the same
opportunities many disadvantages in
terms
opportunities but the same choices with
the same world consequences I do
sympathise the fact that many indigenous
people just like white people grow up
ignorant of where their food comes from
this isn't a difference between white
people and indigenous people can it's
something they have in common I mean
also alcoholism you think that's a
difference between like people in dishes
people ganna go out to the rural white
community small white towns that are
adjacent to the the First Nations
reservations those towns also have
really high rates of alcoholism often
high rates of drug use certain drugs are
very popular right now in the Canadian
wilderness
as Canadians small towns you know
there's a lot of painkiller addiction
same thing in small towns in the
northern United States right now but hey
drug and alcohol problems are enormous
in both white small towns and First
Nations small towns there's something
they have in common the choice you make
the decision you make is one you are
responsible for and nothing about the
color of your skin changes that nothing
about the racism of your society changes
that okay the racism of the society you
live in may really make it impossible or
make it much more difficult for you to
become a dentist you may be lacking
opportunities but I absolutely refuse to
believe this kind of in really
profoundly racist but ostensibly
anti-racist perspective that somehow the
color of your skin or the racism of the
society around you absolves you from the
moral agency and ethical responsibility
to make the decision of what you eat
what goes in your mouth and down your
throat when you go to the grocery store
or what kind of drugs you smoke or snort
or inject into your arm adventists Yin a
lot of left-wing people like to use this
vague term agency the sense of human
agency and it's an important concept
even if I don't particularly dig the
jargon I'm gonna be responding in this
video to yet another comment from my
former patreon supporter mod vegan
apparently she just quit my my patreon
in a ray
due to my comments about the death
penalty for drug addicts a video that's
already uploaded on this channel um but
in this video I think I'm mostly dealing
with the question of indigenous peoples
First Nations peoples agency and
responsibility for your own actions
although another issue dealt with here
is indeed drug addiction and what I see
as one of the most important problems
for our generation the proliferation of
drug use drug use of all kinds but of
course it's especially troubling when
we're talking about hard drug use drugs
like heroin and cocaine that have such
compulsive power over people um I have
said in many videos in many different
contexts how much I care about the
survival of indigenous peoples languages
I have many many videos you're
advocating for the government and the
education system in Canada taking a much
more active role in supporting the use
of those languages for example just
yesterday I went up to a bank machine
you know a computerized teller where you
punch in the numbers and withdraw your
money a bank machine here in Canada and
that bank machine I think had four
foreign languages it had Spanish
Portuguese Chinese and I'm sorry had two
it had both Taiwanese Chinese and
mainland Chinese so two forms of the
Chinese language plus are two official
languages in Canada French and English
so when you first log into the bank
machine that's showing you quite a few
languages for you to choose between on
screen but not a single one of them is
indigenous to Canada English is not a
Canadian language it's a European
language French
is not a Canadian language it's a
European language I feel very
passionately about that and I hope one
day in the future I will walk up to a
bank machine and put in my card and
there will be a language there like
cream or a jib way or mohawk there will
be an actual Canadian language and if
you say that a language like Cree is
very marginal that it's not speaking by
a spoken by a large number of people in
Canada I ask you back how many people in
Canada speak Portuguese
Portugese was on that menu and how
important is the Portuguese language for
the president future of Canada because
there are other countries that already
support the Portuguese language such as
Portugal such as Brazil so the future of
the Portuguese language is in many ways
assured by government policy and
education policy in Portugal and Brazil
the nation of Portugal does not need us
as Canadians and taxpayers to support
their language in their culture they're
supporting it themselves but if we do
not support the future of the Korean
language the Ghibli language the mohawk
language the Inuit language if we don't
do it here those languages will die here
and now so that's an issue I'm very
passionate about and I've spoken about
in many many videos from many different
angles but I've just gotten this this
message from my vegan I hope I still
have it on screen here in which she is
offended and again apparently she's
raged quit out of my out of my patreon
she's no longer a patreon supporter she
says quote 2000 is the figure advertised
by the Chinese government
it likely represents a small fraction of
the actual number well I don't know
Marvin I don't think you've done
research on social statistics for China
but also the sushis claiming the number
2000 is a small financial number I can
say the opposite I don't know what
percentage of the 2000 people executed
have anything to do with with drug
dealing or drug offenses and in China I
should mention it is not a drug it's not
a death penalty defense to be a drug
addict or drug user it's for drug
trafficking for drug dealing drug
smuggling those are definitely but it's
not being a drug addict you will find if
you just google a little bit they do
have rehabilitation programs for people
who are drug addicts trying to recover
some of them amazingly even linked to
religion I was just reading an article
about that now I happen to google and
find it or they even have Christian
missionaries trying to save people's
souls who are or drug addicts so you
know they have the usual mixed policy
that relies on what I think is a
convenient moral illusion that somehow
drug dealers rb2 are the ones to blame
that they're the ones making an ethical
choice and that drug users drug
consumers are not now as a vegan
especially that's a very very strange
perspective I think vegans in general
blame the demand side of the equation we
blame the fact that there is a demand
for meat we tend not to blame the
middlemen produce
meet we tend not to blame the
slaughterhouse workers because we know
as long as people are wanting to buy
meat other people are gonna want to
trade in meat produce meat slaughter
meat etc so we tend to say look we have
to take a demand centred approach to
this we're trying to eliminate the
demand for meat and not trying to be
overly punitive to people who happen to
be employees of a slaughterhouse or
happen to be middlemen in that so by the
same token I don't buy the depiction of
drug addicts as passive victims who have
no agency there is that word agency
again that I open this video talking
about and only drug dealers as having
agencies or drug drug dealers is having
moral responsibility for the situation
we can say the opposite as long as
people are willing to pay for cocaine
somebody's going to be growing it and
somebody is gonna be dealing it but
nevertheless of course there's more
responsibility on both sides people make
a choice to be a drug dealer but people
also make a morally significant choice
in being a drug user and don't take that
away from them
don't dehumanize drug addicts don't
treat them as something superhuman or
something subhuman which also insights I
say again again in other context about
treatment of indigenous peoples this
comes up as her as her comment continues
quote I lived in Vancouver for five
years and spent time with people on the
Lower East Side
many are victims of racism and quite a
large number our First Nations people
close quote
really so let's talk about agency and
let's talk about personal moral
responsibility if a white person becomes
a drug addict that's their choice that's
their responsibility they are morally
culpable for the consequences of their
actions but you're telling me that
someone who is a victim of racism is not
your your dehumanizing that is a racist
perspective I know you may think Maude
vegan that your perspective is
anti-racist but it's not your
perspective is actually racist you're
actually treating these people as
subhuman you're treating them as less
responsible for the choices they make
for the consequences of their actions
and that is from my perspective evil now
if a black person chooses to become a
drug addict is that choice different
from a white person making the choice
making the decision if a kree person or
in a Jif way person makes that choice is
it different from a white person making
that choice is it in what way I mean it
is very easy for me to say for example
my grandmother this is going back long
time a grandmother's deceased now my
grandmother actually did have to face
organized institutional systemic racism
against her because she was a Jew who
wanted to become a dentist it was
formerly overtly written in the
institutions they had anti-jewish
policies I'm not joke so it wasn't like
a crit attitude or hidden you know they
had like a quota and so on for how many
Jews did they let in his ins what have
you there were openly newspapers used to
be like that - I remember they used to
have only a certain number of Jewish
reporters one have you okay
that's a certain context for becoming a
dentist today I can say for sure if you
meet someone who has successfully become
a dentist and they are Creon a jib way
or mohawk you can talk to them about the
types of racism mostly informal not
formally written that way that they had
to come to dis advantages they don't
come absolutely that's a very meaningful
and very important you know context talk
but if you talk to the same person if
you talk to a career chip a person who
success became a dentist and you have
this kind of attitude that somehow First
Nations people are not really
responsible for their own moral
decisions in the same way that a white
person would be the same way that a
black person would be god damn you
that's evil that is a form of prejudice
and racism no less evil than the
opposite it is based on dehumanizing
these people disregarding their agency
disregarding their responsibility for
their own moral choices and actions and
for their consequences okay
becoming an alcoholic becoming a addict
to say a soft drug like marijuana
becoming an actor to heroin there's a
series of choices there but unless
you're talking about extreme situations
where somebody is a captive
and somebody else is injecting the
heroin into them I have actually random
occasions like that I've done some
disturbing research in my life with a
few very very straight few exceptions
where people's agency is taken away from
them they are the ones making this
series of moral decision and think about
how insulting it is to all the Cree
people and all the entryway people who
choose sobriety the Cree people choose
whether or not they become dentists
whether or not they have successful
careers or have an education Rafi
I've met those people and a lot of them
I've met many Korean achieve a people
who had a period of drug addiction or
maybe whether it was alcohol or drugs
are both usually both and then they
cleaned up and went back to school they
made that decision after having that
experience they made that commitment to
sobriety they made that choice you
really think it's different from a white
person doing real things different black
person really and you have to learn to
talk about indigenous people as people
period period not superhuman not
subhuman they're people they're
responsible for their actions in the
same way that we are do they have the
same opportunities that we do not always
know as I said for my grandmother it was
difficult to become a dentist but she
did it for like you know I'm just
thinking of Han Karina g-way people I
knew personally like there was many of
them were in university when I knew them
in Toronto and in Saskatchewan you sure
I think incredibly difficult for them
because not impossible but sure if I
think about for them starting off at you
know Lac La Ronge Reservation to get the
science education they need and go
through the process to become a dentist
not easy
definitely definitely very difficult but
yeah becoming a becoming a drug addict
is easy and they're responsible for
their own choices they don't have the
same opportunities that a white person
born in Toronto has it would have been
much easier for me to become a dentist
then for that one dentist partly because
I already had a grandmother's and
dentists but it is you you you can't
treat that lack of opportunity as if it
is some kind of psychological difference
that would make them pass
victims in of drug addiction rather than
people with agency making those moral
choices themselves okay she says quote I
don't think that threatening people with
death to make the problems of poverty
racism and mental mental illness more
palatable is a genuine solution was I
talking about solving poverty was I
talking about solving racism was I
talking about solving mental illness
that's it that's a completely insincere
completely unfair argument Maude and you
know it okay I was not talking about the
death penalty to solve poverty racism or
mental illness you're completely
misrepresenting my argument in every way
I think you know that's an unfair and
dishonest response from you she says a
continued quote I'm definitely opposed
to authoritarianism so if that makes me
a liberal whatever okay fair enough
mmm something else Maude vegan said to
me just a couple of days ago I really
wanted to record a response to and I'll
state it now because from my perspective
it is linked or it is parallel in a
recent debate between vegan gains and
Matt Dillahunty vegan gains said very
casually as a throwaway line that he
thought it was morally acceptable for
indigenous people to engage in hunting
for survival I said in the present tense
he didn't say 2,000 years ago now I know
vegan gains were saying this very
spontaneous on a debate I'm not holding
him to this or something as his official
position he said it in passing it is
very interesting to me to see the extent
to which veganism in 2018 has matured to
the point of being in that sense
soft on hunting there's an opposite
point of view that also exists in Venus
minimum rights that each animal
basically has a soul so in a murder an
animal in hunting it doesn't matter if
the person is an indigenous person it
doesn't matter if the hunter is an
indigenous person living in the jungle
or if the hunter hunter is a white
person who's a millionaire on vacation
that fundamentally this is an act of
murder because the animal soul that is a
different perspective that's also
represented in veganism there are
debates between those two people who
regard animal rights as something
intrinsic to the animal and
people who take more of a socially
relative view of it this way I would
challenge you under the same heading
just been talking about indigenous
people and their responsibility for
making their own choices about drugs and
alcohol in the year 2018 I think it is
really false to talk about indigenous
people as if they are living in a museum
devoted to their own ancient past
they're not they're living in the same
world that you and I are living in here
and now with many of the same choices
not all the same opportunities many
disadvantages in terms of African
opportunities but the same choices with
the same world consequences in the same
sense that a white person living in the
suburbs makes serious sacrifices to be
engaged in hunting as a hobby the native
people I have known have had to make
serious sacrifices to engage in hunting
as a hobby okay
now what do I mean a lot of time a lot
of money a lot of hard work a lot of
blood to clean up well if you've seen
even fishing
oh god it's gruesome the amount of blood
that comes out of a large fish when they
drag it off the truck and drag it up the
driveway leaving a trail of blood is
amazing to me just just from fish and
fish or red blooded animals to God it's
it's horrifying I've lived around that
stuff there is no sense in which it is
easy or cheap for a Cree person and a
Jib way person a mohawk person to get a
truck drive up to the woods you need a
truck with a big bed kill an animal like
a moose get the animal get the moose out
of the forest onto the back of the truck
drive it home prep the carcass cut off
the skin remove the bones it's a ton of
work just the number of hours the cost
of the equipment the cost of the hunting
trip now everyone knows that about white
people most people will say hunting is
an expensive hobby and there are poor
white people who hunt there are poor
people to do it right but for those poor
people it's even more of a priority
those are poor people who say who you
know who choose not to spend money in
other things to set that money aside and
make that decision make that
because it really matters them so there
are poor white people who hunt there are
poor Korean a Jib way people who hunt I
remember talking to a guy who was a mine
manager he was the manager for a mine in
northern Canada and he really made an
effort to employ First Nations people
and he expressed his frustration to me
that they would they were so
enthusiastic about hunting moose they
would stop everything to hang and devote
many many hours daunting moose and he
couldn't get any same enthusiasm for
them to do some of the technical work on
mites and he told me stories about you
know the moose hunting trips these guys
would organize from the mine site you
know going out deeper into the woods and
coming back it's a lot of work okay it's
a moral choice it's an ethical choice
that has the same consequences and the
same significance for them or for us it
is fundamentally racist and evil to
treat people with brown skin as as if
they're not they don't have this agency
there's this word agency as if they
don't have the responsibility of those
choices if they don't have the
understanding of it I made a video in
Chinese I talked about it recently the
videos for more than a year ago and in
that video I say which is how I really
feel about this um if you know that the
meat packing industry if you know that
the slaughterhouse industry if you know
that it is evil as soon as you know that
there's a moral obligation on you to
change your life accordingly to make
decisions that reflect that knowledge it
is true we are all born ignorant okay I
do sympathise the fact that many
indigenous people just like white people
grow up ignorant of where their food
comes from
this isn't a difference between white
people and indigenous people can it's
something they have in common I mean
also alcoholism you think that's a
difference between like people ambitious
people ganna go out to the rural white
community small white towns that are
adjacent to the the First Nations
reservations those towns also have
really high rates of alcoholism often
high rates of drug use certain drugs are
very popular right now in the Canadian
wilderness as Canadians small towns you
know there's a lot of painkiller
addiction same thing in small town
in the northern United States right now
but anyway drug and alcohol problems are
enormous
in both white small towns and First
Nations small towns there's something
they have in common right
growing up ignorant about where your
food comes from what it means to go to
the grocery store and buy a piece of
meat
in a you know plastic wrapped container
what that means what the ethical
significance is what the ecological zoom
is is we are all born ignorant but as
soon as you know as soon as you find out
the choice you make the decision you
make is one you are responsible for and
nothing about the color of your skin
changes that nothing about the racism of
your society changes that okay the
racism of the society you live in may
really make it impossible or make it
much more difficult for you to become a
dentist you may be lacking opportunities
but I absolutely refuse to believe this
kind of in really profoundly racist but
ostensibly anti-racist perspective that
somehow the color of your skin or the
racism of the society around you
absolves you from the moral agency and
ethical responsibility to make the
decision of what you eat what goes in
your mouth and down your throat when you
go to the grocery store or what kind of
drugs you smoke or snort or inject into
your arm ultimately that is on you
[Music]
evolution